 LOVE

All three reading are about love, which makes sense, since as the second reading says "love is of God," and to worship and learn of God is what we are here for.

What is love? Baby don't hurt me... no
What is love? Movies and TV and hormone-ridden teenagers will talk of feelings of love. I mean, I like those feelings. Warm and fuzzy. it's nice.

but it's not what we mean by love.

Paraphrasing Aquinas: real love is "willing the good of the other, as other." repeat

This ties right in with the line from the gospel reading:

    "No one has greater love than this,
    to lay down one's life for one's friends."

If I jump on the grenade to save you, I am 100% committed to the good of the other, you. I am seeking your continued life, your continued being. And by the doctrine of the transcendentals, being is convertible with good, so by seeking to save your life, I am truly seeking your good. This is presciely what Aquinas means:

    to will the good of the other, as other.

2nd read says:

    "everyone who loves is begotten by God and knows God."

Wow. Strong language there. Does it say "some people" who love? no, "EVERYONE who loves." This makes a lot of sense, since God is the ultimate source of goodness, the ultimate source of being, and the very reason we are capable of love in the first place! When we love, when we seek the good of the other, we reflect God! We are made in the image of God. We are made to love.

---

But this phrase "everyone who loves is begotten by God and knows God" also shows us that to the extent which we love, we are begotten by God, and know God. If I am loving you, if I am willing your good, then I am connected to God. The love I show to you come from God through me. It is impossible to love without God being involved. Even when an atheist loves another, he shows that he has some measure of an intuitive knowledge of God, though he denies the explicit truths that God has revealed through the Church.

And we see that the opposite is true. immediately after it says "everyone who loves is begotten by God and knows God" it continues:

    "Whoever is without love does not know God, for God is love."

This is huge! We are Christians. We are "little Christs," that's what Christian means. We think Christ is God, and we strive to know and serve him. That's the whole thing we're here for! But if we are here to know and serve God, and it says that "without love" we do "not know God," then we cannot do what we are here to do without love! Love is central to Christianity, just as Christ is central to Christianity. After all, Christ is God, and "God is love."

But loving is hard. I'm certainly not good at it. I'm all wrapped up in my own head, thinking about what I need to do, and what I should have done, and blah blah blah. Even to notice that other people exist sometimes takes effort. So to love these people? To will their good? To concern myself with what would help them, what would make their lives better, what would make them better people? Man, that's hard. Do we get a little help?

As it turns out, yes, we do.

Jesus says:
    
    It was not you who chose me, but I who chose you
    and appointed you to go and bear fruit that will remain,
    so that whatever you ask the Father in my name he may give you.
    This I command you: love one another.

Jesus is the one who commands us to love, and He is the one who will help us. "whatever you ask the Father in my name he may give you." Sometimes we pray, we ask God for things, and he doesn't give them to us. We think to ourselves, "maybe this praying thing doesnt even work." or even "was God listening?" Well, that may be your experience with asking God for a raise or some healing on your sore legs, but I can guarantee, that will not be your experience when asking God for help in the things he has commanded of you. God is the one who tells us to love one another and God is the one who will give us the strength to do it. "ask the Father" in the name of Jesus, and you will "go and bear fruit."

God loves you, because God is love. Through this love, through God, we too can love each other.

Jesus said to his disciples:

    As the Father loves me, so I also love you.
    Remain in my love.
    If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love,
    just as I have kept my Father's commandments
    and remain in his love.

Amen
